[Music]
the art of public speaking
by dale carnegie there is a strange
sensation
often experienced in the presence of an
audience
it may proceed from the gaze of many
eyes that turn upon the speaker
especially if he permits himself
to steadily return the gaze
most speakers have been conscious of
this in a nameless thrill a real
something pervading the atmosphere
tangible evanescent indescribable
all writers have borne testimony to the
power of the speaker's eyes
in impressing an audience
this influence which we are now
considering is the reverse of that
picture
the power their eyes may exert upon him
especially before he begins to speak
after the inward fires of oratory
are fanned into flames the eyes of the
audience
lose all terror
[Music]
students of public speaking continually
ask
how can i overcome self-consciousness
and the fear that paralyzes me before
an audience did you ever notice
in looking from a train window that some
horses feed near the track and never
even pause to look
up at the thundering cars
while just ahead of the next railroad
crossing
a farmer's wife will be nervously trying
to quiet her scared horse
as the train goes by
how would you cure a horse that is
afraid of cars
graze him in a backwoods lot where he
would never
see steam engines or automobiles
or drive or pasture him where
he would frequently see the machines
apply horse sense to ridding yourself of
self-consciousness
and fear face an audience as frequently
as you can
and you will soon stop shine
you can never attain freedom from stage
fright
by reading a treatise
a book may give you excellent
suggestions
on how best to conduct yourself in the
water
but sooner or later you must get wet
perhaps even strangle and be half scared
to death
there are a great many wetless bathing
suits
worn at the seashore but no one ever
learns to swim in them
to plunge is the only way
practice practice in speaking before an
audience will tend to remove
all fear of audiences
just as practice in swimming will lead
to
confidence and facility in the water
you must learn to speak by speaking
the apostle paul tells us that every man
must work out his own salvation
all we can do here is to offer you
suggestions
as to how best to prepare for your
plunge
the real plunge no one can take for you
a doctor may prescribe but you must take
the medicine
do not be disheartened if at first you
suffer from stage fright
dan patch was more susceptible to
suffering
than any superannuated dre horse would
be
it never hurts a fool to appear before
an audience
for his capacity is not a capacity for
feeling
a blow that would kill a civilized man
soon heals on stage the higher we go
in the scale of life the greater
is the capacity for suffering
for one reason or another some master
speakers never entirely
overcome stage fright but it will pay
you
to spare no pains to conquer it
daniel webster failed in his first
appearance
and had to take his seat without
finishing his speech because he was
nervous
gladstone was often troubled with
self-consciousness in the beginning of
an address
beecher was always perturbed
before talking in public
[Music]
blacksmiths sometimes twist a rope tight
around the nose of a horse and thus by
inflicting a little pain
they distract his attention from the
shoeing process
one way to get air out of a glass is to
pour water into it
apply the blacksmith's homely principle
when you are speaking
if you feel deeply about your subject
you will be able to think of little
else concentration
is a process of distraction from less
important matters
it is too late to think about the cut on
your code
once you are upon the platform
so center your interest on what you
are about to say fill your mind
with your speech material and like the
infilling water in a glass
it will drive out your unsubstantial
fears
nothing advertises itself so thoroughly
as conceit
one may be so full of oneself as to be
empty
voltaire said we must conceal self-love
but that cannot be done you know this to
be true
for you have recognized overseeing
self-love
in others if you have it
others are seeing it in you
there are things in this world better
than self
and in working for them self will be
forgotten
or what is better remembered only
so as to help us win toward higher
things
the trouble with many speakers is that
they go
before an audience with their minds a
blank
it is no wonder that nature
vacuum fills them with the nearest thing
handy
which generally happens to be i wonder
if i'm doing this right
how does my hair look
i know i shall fail their prophetic
souls
are sure to be right
it is not enough to be absorbed by your
subject to acquire self-confidence you
must have
something in which to be confident if
you go before an audience without any
preparation
or previous knowledge of your subject
you ought to be self-conscious
you ought to be ashamed to steal the
time
of your audience
prepare yourself know what you are going
to talk about
and in general how you are going to say
it
have the first few sentences worked out
completely
so that you may not be troubled in the
beginning to find words
know your subject better than your
hearers know it
and you have nothing to fear
let your bearing be modestly confident
but most of all modestly confident
within
overconfidence is bad but to tolerate
premonitions
of failure is worse for a bold man
may win attention by his very bearing
while a rabbit-hearted coward
invites disaster
you